Holland watched the rows of shotgun houses roll past in the glaring light. Each porch elevated to keep the waters from the occasional New Orleans flash flood from uninvited entry into the homes beyond. He had a strange feeling of déjà vu homecoming overlaid onto the landscape. Everywhere he looked there were black and brown faces smiling, and laughing. They sat on their porches and watch the yellow cab roll by.

The French influence architecture of the busier streets had given way to these cramped narrow two-story abodes which looked nothing like the tall tenement houses of Baltimore or the short squat structures that served as single-family homes there. And yet somehow the people made this place feel more familiar and more like home than anywhere he'd been in 20 years.

The driver had taken the I-10 from the airport to N. Claiborne Ave. driving along the causeway until they reached Esplanade where he'd turned south and headed down the wide, divided street. As they approach the outskirts of the French quarter, the houses had grown bigger on either side of the Greenway Esplanade consisted of two narrow lanes north and south separated by three lanes worth of green space.

 Towering live oak trees were planted every few dozen paces or so, throwing shade out with their sprawling limbs. An unpaved path dirt bisected the rows of trees conjuring images of an older time.A feeling that was amplified by palatial two-story homes lighting the sides of the streets. There wide balconies supported by pillars of all types. There seem to be no rhyme or reason to the colors as he passed houses of bold plantation white next to vibrant Pepto-Bismol pink. Yellows, greens, blues clustered up next to raw brick or stucco.

The two-story buildings gave way three as they rolled past the French quarter. The cabbie had then turned left down the narrow lane of Frenchmen Street and into the decidedly not white neighborhood of the Faubourg Marigny. Here was a lively, if somewhat rundown, commerce center and neighborhood. Many of the buildings still showed their French roots and were in various states of disrepair or in the process of being revitalized.

Now is the cab driver slowed the car in front of a large faded blue three-story building with a single red door he turned around as if expecting Holland to tell them to keep driving. "dis wer yah wun?"

Holland paused with 1/2 heartbeat took to translate the man's thick accent, "it is, thank you." He paid the man who met him outside with his single travel case Holland made his way up the three steps to the small porch in front of the door. There was no sign or any other indication that this was a boardinghouse but Holland knocked, anyway. In ancient weathered man with folds of brown skin under his mane of white hair answered the door. He looked Holland up and down and smiled.

"Well you mus be dat New York boy. Come on in Den." Despite the fact that the old man couldn't of weighed half of what Holland did he reached out with a firm hand and pulled the travel case away and walked into the house. "Got you on da third floah, dinner served at six sharp." Immediately inside the door to the left was a steep staircase, the old man switched Holland's bag from his right to his left hand to grab the railing and began his way up the stairs. "Breakfast is also served at six, but you be okay if you come down as late as seven."

The air was thick and humanity even inside of the home and Holland found that he was sweating by the time they'd begun to climb the second set of stairs. He met the old man at the top would set his bag down in front of one of two doors. He wasn't breathing as hard as Holland was while he held out his hand. "Names Clarence, you either find me or the lady Rose if you need anything." He said as Holland shook his hand on surprised at how firm the old man's grip was. Holland took the key he had given him moved inside of the guestroom where he placed his things and then turned and walked back out locking the door behind him.

Standing at the top of the stairs Holland checked his watch it four hours and 15 minutes to be back for dinner. It many years since he'd worn casual attire and he felt a little out of place in his beige linen pants and dock ciders. He wore a plain white tank top  under his light blue short-sleeved Guayabera shirt. 

Outside the air was thick the moisture was palpable as you move through it. Every year people in New York would complain about the humidity during the summer. New Orleans in May added beat hands down. It was only 82° out in a small river of sweat was rolling down the middle of his back By the time he made his way back into the Marigny. 

Now was time to get to work. It memorized the layout from the Bywater to the Garden District but seeing streets on a piece of paper was different than walking them. Right now he needed to get a feel for the city the CIA operative in him taking hold of his mannerisms and helping them blend in. With any luck he would have a few clues before dinner.

The lady Rose or mama rose to anyone under 50 was a bristling pile of energy. She exuded good humor while talking and laughing loudly everywhere she went. She was a tall and large woman of generous proportions. At first Holland had been moderately offended by the way she talked to him like a child until he learned that she was in her 60s. He must've looked to fool with his mouth hanging open when she told him because she'd respond with, "it's the humidity darling, a proper Southern woman's best friend."

Now she was telling him that they were waiting on the newest guest and asking them how his first hours in the city had gone. "Oh now here he is. Mr. James I would like to you to meet Mr. Talal. He's across the hall from you just got in today the same as you."

Ahmed Farouq's looked nervous and Holland was fairly sure that not all of his sweating was from the humidity. "Nice to meet you Mr. James," he stammered.

"Likewise Mr. Talal, a pleasure," he turned to mama Rose. "I we're only two guests right now?"

"For tonight dear. Come tomorrow we have another single gentleman and a couple checking in for jazz fest. Now it's time to eat if you would kindly take your seats we may say grace." 

Truly satisfied with his meal, probably for the first time since leaving Portland Holland thanked mama Rose  for her hospitality and excused himself for the evening. Upstairs in his room he pulled open the storm shutters and stepped out onto the balcony to sit down and wait for Farouq. Within 10 minutes the other man came through the adjoining door onto the balcony.

"It's good to see you loosened up over dinner sit over there on that side just in case were observed."

"By the prophet Car..."

"It's James, James Johnson. I know this is in your normal thing Ahmed. For me it's easy but for you you need to only call me that while were here. Otherwise, you might slip up under pressure. Make it a habit over use it until your used to it."

"Okay, James. I don't know how I let you talk me into this. If they find out I've taken the relic careers could be over worse."

"Did you follow my instructions exactly?"

"I may spend most of my time in the lab, Mr. Johnson, but I am not an idiot." He was smiling now, "do you really think he's here?"

"I do and I think I know where to begin looking. Our official rendezvous is in a little under 48 hours. We will meet him at stage 3 at 4:30 PM the day after tomorrow. At least that's what his postcard said. But me risking my career on this is one thing I need to know what he's really up to you if I'm going to risk yours. I have already made a circuit of the French quarter and picked up a few contacts. Not to mention marked the location of five motorcycles , I'm going to have to thank Delgado for that one someday if I ever get a chance. She's a sharp one."

“So what do I do in the meantime?”

“Go to the festival, enjoy yourself. That music and distance is the Nevile Brothers Playing on the President Steamboat.  When was the last time you were able to enjoy a simple night out?  This is not like Iran before the revolution.  You don't have to worry about who sees you and no one is going to hold it against you if you go enjoy the show."

"Then why the secrecy Carter?"

"You are an important scientist and it is true your activities and whereabouts are being monitored.  But the secrecy is not to hide what you are doing from anyone it is to hide that you have had any contact with me outside of work.  No one back at headquarters knows that we met in seventy-seven.  That op was so dark it's not even in my CIA file.  Not to mention you were one of 100 scientists and their families that we smuggled out over those three months.  But just because there's no connection on the surface doesn't mean that people might start axing questions if we are seen publicly together.  Hence the secrecy.  Of course there's the unauthorized removal and transport of the relic, but that's a different issue.  So I can tell my words are not relaxing you the way I had intended.  I'm going to go.  You should too."

He stood up to leave giving his friend one last look at the smile that he hoped was reassuring Before setting off into the darkening skies of night.  The city in the day felt lazy, everything moved slowly through the air that felt like soup.  At night however the city felt alive.  People walked more quickly as the temperature cooled and the humidity receded.  The city was dark and while Holland was sure it could be dangerous he couldn't help feeling the thrill of excitement.

The sounds of jazz and blues and rock 'n' roll would change with every few hundred strides as he would stroll from one music biome into another.  Everywhere there were parties laughing people, their faces changed with the music.  Holland made his way through the sights and the sounds of lower Decatur Street walking through the open-air French market the sounds of people haggling and laughing the smells of spices and fish.

In Jackson Square he turned in is made his way up St. Peter Street the cobblestones underfoot felt uneven and lent the sense of vertigo as the Cathedral towered over him and the smells of the inner French quarter assaulted his nose.  The further away from the river he walked the worse the smell became.  It was a heady mix of rot, mildew, flowering plants, and sewage that overpowered the senses and had him feeling a little queasy.  On his earlier outing he had rub shoulders with many of the locals and pretended to be a motorcycle enthusiast everywhere where he had found one parked.  Getting people to talk was easy, getting them to talk about what you wanted required a little finesse.

Holland's best lead had been when he inquired about a Honda 750 Super Sport.  The bike and been customized in the way he'd never seen before with big knobby all-terrain tires and a bare-bones almost military look.  The one exception was the bright purple almost pink pin striping down the middle of the tank.  It been locked up sitting next to the newspaper stand in front of Verti Marte Deli.  Everyone inside seem to have known the owner.

"You're out of luck with that one Mister, Dean loves that bike.  Does all the work on it himself.  He pays the owner 100 bucks a month the park it there just because the delis open twenty-four hours and you can see it from the counter."

"Sounds like this Dean guy knows a lot about bikes.  Maybe he would know where I could get one like it or even help me customize a different one if I bought it.  How can I get a hold of this guy?"

"Man you could just wait right here until he comes back or you could go down and see them at Pat O'Brien's.  He tends bar there three nights a week."

Now he was approaching the world famous Pat O'Brien's in-person and felt that tingling sensation that frequently went hand-in-hand with tracking down the lead.  The Super Sport was parked across the street in front of an all-night diner. 100 feet or so passed the entrance throngs of people milled about on Bourbon Street.  He held back from moment taking a good measure of the landscape. The broad red structure of Pat O’Brien’s was wider than most residential lots and looked squat despite the buildings obvious height. Both the ground floor and the level above appeared,in true New Orleans fashion, to have the twelve to fourteen foot high ceilings. He remembered reading that in the centuries before electric bands and air conditioners the people of New Orleans had been masters of building's spacious interiors that would collect heat near the top and keep air flowing through the main parts of the building. 

There was a line outside the doors of Pat O'Brien but he noticed that people were walking in to the building without waiting.  Guess there must be show of some type in one part while other parts of the establishment allowed for casual drinking.He noticed a group of black tourists smiling and laughing and walking toward the entrance he cut across the street to catch up with them walking just a few paces behind.  Their accent sounded like they were from Chicago and the man in front ran to the front of the line loudly asked the doorman, "how long is the wait for the piano bar?"  Healing doorman talk for a few more minutes in a quieter tone before shaking hands.  When the man returned to his group he said, "come on, let's go get some hurricanes in the main bar.  My brotha at the door will come find us when there's a table available in the piano bar, ya dig?" 

The group walked around line squeeze through the front doors Holland tucked in behind them.  Inside the carriageway led to a massive staircase about 40 feet ahead on the left and a large open garden courtyard to the right of that.  Tables were set out around the courtyard couples groups were sitting around drinking bright red hurricanes from tall glasses emblazoned with the Pat O'Brien's logos.  On the left side of the carriageway was a smaller neighborhood style bar with a dozen or so tables along the outside walls and a curving Traditional gloss finished bar stretching the entire length. Holland was still standing behind the small group from Chicago when he saw the bartender.  Dressed in a white short sleeve button down shirt with a green apron around his waist and a matching green bowtie, Nicholas Starr appeared in his element.  He appeared to be carrying on three conversations at once with several groups scattered around the bar all the while moving with rapid fluid grace.  His smile never left his face and he was clearly out working the other bartender.

Holland couldn't take his eyes off of Nick.  Seeing him there expertly navigate two thirds of a busy Friday night barroom it was easy to understand how he had managed to convince someone like Sheriff Smith.  In truth Holland couldn't quite wrap his mind around it, he continued to stare as the young men sold two or three drinks for every one that his senior bartender seem to be able to push across the bar.

He looked physically different as well.  His hair had grown long was flung out around him in a while mane that nearly reached to his shoulders.  His previously slender arms now look corded with new muscle.  Holland was so taken off guard that he had noticed the group in front of him was gone.  He stepped back out of the doors just as Nick's attention was moving to the to the group that was now several paces in front of him leaving him exposed in the doorway.

Back out in the courtyard he selected the table near the shadowy back and ordered an Irish coffee all the while staring at the entrance to the bar some 100 feet away.  He found himself disturbed his skin transitioning from perspiration to chilled goosebumps and back several times as he calmed his mind.  He couldn't shake the feeling that what he just witnessed was not humanly possible.  No one no matter how talented could arrive in a new city with no work experience land a job in a competitive workforce and perform at the very top skill level within three months.

He kept turning the scene over and over again in his head the other bartender looked to be in his 30s and had been showing signs of frustration.  Yet in the brief moments that Holland had stood and watched from the doorway he'd seen the older man look at the younger with admiration several times as Nick had spun or laughed or made a joke with one hand while pouring a drink with the other.

He'd finished two coffee drinks before he realized he was still brooding.  He pulled his mind away from reflection and waved the waiter over. "How late is the bar open?" 

"Four in the mornin, you want another drink?"

"Thanks, but no."  Holland stood and left the bar, debating on whether to come back at four. Five and half hours later Holland sat in the window of the all-night diner as the last of the tourists left the bar across the street and the doorman shut the gates.  Years of training had fought off most of the tiredness but a cup of black coffee with chicory was helping alleviate the rest.  This type of thing had certainly been easier in his 30s he mused as he ate a breakfast of eggs and grits.

Four men, two white and two black were walking across the street practically arm in arm.  They all wore white shirts and pants and looked for all the world like the beginnings of an ice cream truck drivers convention , Nick was among them.  The other white man was the bartender Nick had been working with and he could tell from the other two's short sleeve shirts that they were waiters.  When they entered the diner they instantly doubled the patronage bringing with them a sense of busyness.

The four men sat down at the bar and well being asked each was given a Viking sized goblet of Budweiser while the openly gay waiter prattled on about how handsome they all were and how happy he was to have something to look at.  They ordered hamburgers and settled into a mellow conversation, surprisingly and un-segregated one.  Holland strained his ears attempting to pick up what they were saying.

"You going to come to church with us on Sunday?  Mama said we should let you play basketball with us if you don't come to church first it's a tradition."  The young man speaking couldn't be much older than Nick was maybe eighteen or nineteen years old at least as tall if not taller than Nick in twenty or 30 pounds heavier.  He had a round cherubic face and a flashing smile that Holland imagined would make him hard to dislike.

"Tell your mom out come to church, you know I'm not gonna miss the ball game.  I'll come to your house for breakfast you know the preacher don't like it when I drive the motorcycle into the church lot."  This must've been a joke because both of them were practically doubled over laughing now.

I'll be damned if they don't actually look like friends.  Real friends,  one more oddity to an already enigmatic personality.

Amidst the laughter Nick turned to look over his shoulder aiming his eyes toward his motorcycle and falling on Holland.  A grin pulled the corner of his mouth up and he nodded slowly.  "Chuck I'll see you on Sunday morning right now I have a go talk to that gentleman over there.  A friend of mine from up north.  Hey Jack," he yelled at the waiter.  "This is all me but bring mine over there."  He pointed toward Holland's table is a ticked up his beer and silverware and moved to sit down across.

"So how do you find New Orleans?"

"Other than the smell I quite like it."

"You'd be surprised how quickly you get used to that.  I should've known you tracked me down before I the show."  He paused for a moment as the waiter, Jack, said a burger and homemade potato chips down in front of Nick.  "I just want you to know that I'm going to go watch Run DMC on Saturday no matter what.  I never got to see them first time around, in their prime I mean.  I'm not to miss it this time."

"I have no idea what any of that means other than your not going to be available on Saturday afternoon."

"Carter, now you're going to have to come with me.  Because someday I hope you have kids and you're gonna want to tell them that you were there at the beginning."  He took a big bite of his burger grease dribbling down past his fingers and back onto the plate while he made contented noises over his chewing.  After swallowing he continued, "so did you bring it?"

"I did."  Looking at this young man eating and drinking. Living life with his friends, having seen him in action and knowing what he did to Pera and Wallace Holland couldn't move past the paradox.  "Look Nick," Nick coughed loudly at that and shook his head.  "Look, Dean I need to know a few things before we continue."

Recovered from his coughing fit he took a bite of his burger staring at Holland and chewing.  "What you want to know?"

"First, who are you?  I just watched you earlier tonight ten bar like a professional with twenty years experience.  You took down two agents on armed in a busy casino and managed to get out with anybody stopping you.  How do you explain that, I've met some pretty rough-and-tumble teenagers before my life but none of them could pull this kind of shit off."  He felt relieved and emotionally drained at the same time having verbalized what had been building up inside of him.  He leaned back and pushed his plate to the edge of the table waiting for Dean to respond.

They stared at each other, neither one saying anything for several long moments until Jack returned.  "Damn!  Is this a love connection going on?  Dean if I'd known you swung that way I would've been all over you already.  Or do you only go for," he looked Holland up and down in an overt manner.  "mmm-hhm, well that's some fine chocolate. I aint mad at'cha."  As Jack retreated Nick began to laugh.

"All right Carter.  By my count I'm seventy-six years old, and from what I've been able to piece together so far that relic has something to do with why I'm now stuck living in my own past."  The words seemed to bounce around Holland's mind like a ricocheting bullet.  The implications of what he just heard seem beyond his ability to grasp and yet somehow it seemed to be the only explanation that made sense.  All of the pieces fitting together like a puzzle that had been hidden from him until now.

He had dozens of more questions and opened his mouth to voice them only to close it again.  After several repetitions of this behavior Nick took pity on him and continued.  "You almost look like you expected that.  Before we continue I just want to say sorry about you guys.  Nothing went according to plan and I barely made it out of there.  But hey, I also want to say thank you for getting Danny and Jeannie back home, I appreciate that you are a man of your word.  I hope there's no hard feelings about knocking out your guys like that."

"You did more than knock out Sonny Pera.  You gave him one hell of concussion and a couple of days under medical observation.  Not to mention a black mark on his reputation that allowed a hard time living down for years.  Getting your ass handed to you by a teenager that's the kind of story people like to retell."

"Well he didn't give me a lot of options.  That's one tough son of a bitch I'll tell you that, strong too.  He damn near had me twice.  Anyway, something tells me he could use a dose of humility.  Now where were we?  Oh yeah, 2046.  Prostate cancer metastasize through my whole body.  I tried to fight it, it won.  Next thing I know it's December 2, 1984 and I am."  He held his hands up in looked down at his body gesturing.

“December 2, that's when we picked up the anomaly."

"Yeah except like I told you at the barn, by the time I figured out that that little black rock might have something to do with it you and your team and already moved in and cleared it out.  So here we are, I have a vested interest in what the hell that rock does and I'm guessing no one else has been able to make it do anything."

"Not quite, it does the same thing for everyone.  Sends out a short burst of radiation and then goes dormant.  One of the lab geeks back home thinks it's implementing some kind of handshake protocol, like a modem."

"Interesting.  If you first registered the anomaly on December 2 why didn't you get it until after the fourteenth?  And how far away where you or your instruments rather when you registered it?"

"We've got sensor stations all over the country, all over the world actually.  The group that I work for have been looking for the one of these objects for a very long time.  I don't know where they pick the signal up first or how far was.  It couldn't have been close to the area.  From what I understand the original signal lasted for fifteen minutes or so, long enough for some basic triangulation to have been performed.  After that it went semi-dormant in the next twelve days were spent scouring the area from the air with amplified radiation detection systems.  Covered a good portion of southern Oregon and Northern California before we found it."

"One of these objects."  He repeated.  "Before we're done you're going to need to explain who it is you really work for.  So how are we going to activate this thing ourselves without setting off more of the same types of alarms?"

"I brought someone with me to handle that."

