It wasn’t like Ando had never seen a dead body before, just not so many in one spot. The stench of feces was heavy in the air. Ando’s stomach pushed upward into his throat and he swallowed, forcing his face to remain neutral.

“Inspector!” the magistrate’s voice cut through Ando’s mental fog. The man looked every bit the part. Tall and still handsome despite his fifty-plus summers, the clean creased lines of his silks spoke of money. His easy eye contact and unabashed smile spoke of privilege. Everything about the man radiated calm authority and likeability. Ando hated him.

“Yes, magistrate?” he replied, hoping he sounded interested.

“In your esteemed opinion, is this the work of sorcery?” Ando’s skin crawled under the gaze.

“I have no reason to believe so, sir.” His left foot turned awkwardly away from the conversation and, to his horror, the older man’s eyes flicked down at the motion.

“Is something wrong, inspector?”

“No, sir, just an old injury. Probably just the smell of blood on an empty stomach has my mind thinking about it.”

“You are an odd man, inspector.” The magistrate straightened to his full height, to look down his nose at Ando. “Call me Zaku,” he continued, “it’s Ando, yes?” Shocked, he managed a weak nod. Zaku turned and walked away from the pier, beckoning Ando to follow.

The three cart lane ran from the bay in a series of orderly switchbacks as it climbed its way to the city overlooking the ocean. On the third tier up from the bottom, Zaku stopped to lean against the aging driftwood railing. “Explain your thinking, Ando,” he said with a sweeping gesture toward the carnage below.

Ando joined him at the rail and looked down. From this height, the scene looked like a painting. An artist’s interpretation of a massacre. The IMS Travail dominated the background, its mooring spanned that of six merchant berths. A deepwater port like Ikarayo Bay frequently accommodated large vessels, but it was curious to see a warship docked at the commercial port.

“Magistrate, meaning no offense,” he offered cautiously. “I learned the scientific method as a child and have used it with much success over my career. In all of my years, I have seen nothing to suggest the evidence of sorcery.”

Zaku’s chuckle had the timber of an opera star and his eyes twinkled as he looked down at Ando. “I encourage such pursuits, inspector, but my question still stands,” he said with an expansive wave of his hand. “How would you explain the scene below us?”

There was an intensity in his gaze that demanded Ando turn physically and study the scene. From this vantage point, the beach looked like a spoiled child’s bedroom. Ando could imagine that each body was a casually discarded toy or doll abandoned mid-play. A wealthy child, one with no end of new playthings to catch its fancy before discarding. They lay in the water and along each of the six peers to the main beach landing. At the widest mood stone edifice of the beach, normally teeming with hawkers and merchants, bodies piled on top of bodies in the pale stone look black and brown and red, still wet and congealing blood.

The problem with belief in magic was that when you couldn’t explain something, the believers took that as a proof of its existence. “You’ve admitted it yourself. There is no logical explanation for this phenomenon, therefore it must be... Magic!” Utter trash! He could hardly tell that to the magistrate though, and so he searched the scene carefully, detaching his revulsion and trying to put the pieces together.

Two dinghies capable of holding 20 to 30 men each, each bearing the logo of the Travail, remained mortal on either side of the westernmost dock. The same dock that was covered in the most bodies, two dozen not including those in the water if he had to guess, all of them in the rich red of the Imperial Navy. A red somehow looked garnish and washed out, lacking debt, amongst the smears of blood which came in many hues and shades. His eyes followed the trail of bodies down to the stone once more, with the men in red were joining with men the green of the harbor patrol. The bodies lay clustered in units of matching colors almost entirely separated from each other, with little chance that they fought each other.

Absent from the scene was any evidence of another party. Ando noticed motion in his peripheral and turned to find a spyglass pointed in his direction. “Look at the ship inspector,” Zaku said, pressing the glass into his hands. Irritated, he turned the glass around and did as he was told. More bodies, more blood, and a massive hole in the center of the deck. Zaku continued, “as you know, the entire area is under quarantine. No one has said put on the ship yet but has been here for over six hours now and in that time we have seen no signs of life.”

Ando reeled, “six hours? I was in the consulate’s office when we received the messenger. That couldn’t have been over two hours ago. Why the delay in involving us then?”

“There were survivors,” he began. “Reports were strange, but before we get into that I want you to finish your assessment.” 

Ando closed his eyes and took a deep breath, savoring the fresher air here. He blew out through pursed lips in a long hissing exhale and focused on the scene below. “Alright, starting with the ship itself, now that I can see it. There is a cannon missing from the gun-deck roughly, even where the hole is on the top deck. There are, if you look closely, indications that the hole was an exit, not an entrance. Meaning, the missing cannon probably misfired. My guess is it happened at sea, but near enough to port to make docking here appealing.”

Zaku raised a hand, “what makes you think it happened at sea?” 

“The waters here in the bay are calm, and I don’t see any debris. Of course, if I am wrong about the direction of impact, that observation is worthless. Should I continue?” Ando asked with a grin. A scenario was unfolding in his mind. One that was only marginally more likely than the supernatural, but may prevent panic and give his office control of the bay in one fell swoop.

