X glides across the floor, moving with the grace earned from a lifetime of studying swordplay. Always the perfect student. First to understand, first to repeat, perfect, even improve. In 30 years X had never met his match. 
Of course, that didn’t include his time as a child learning at the knee of his master. The master that he had bested before his first hairs had sprouted from his chin.
Now, though, blood rushed in his ears and the nape of his neck prickled uncomfortably. He flinched at the touch of a buzzing fly. X chided himself, trying to reclaim his fraying nerves even as he could feel sweat dripping from his pores.
The woman, Sarasima, stood opposite him. She was still calm. A persistent smile touched the corners of her lips. X guess she couldn’t be much over 20 years of age. She had the smooth, perfect beauty of youth; her face framed by shining black hair.
Never had an opponent confused him, frustrated him. His vision shook with the beat of his heart. As if she could read his thoughts, she giggled, never taking her eyes off of him. Eyelashes fluttered, and she gave him a mock curtsy. 
Ice-like fingers crept from his scalp to his stomach and exploded in fire. X struggled to suck air through his rage-clenched teeth.
With a cautious step backward, he watched her, studied her. She was beautiful and talented. Were it not for the fact they were trying to kill each other, he would’ve found her desirable. X felt his face flush as her grin widened, accompanying a salacious wink. 
She was in his head, but she had yet to make a move to follow him and he continued retreating until he stepped onto the yellow dirt of the road. Here he would have better footing, more room to use the strength and speed in his legs.
 He concentrated on regaining his breath, swatting away the flies as he waited for her.
Swordplay is a layered thing. To be a master of the blade, one had to do more than master the motions. Your body, mind, and even your facial expressions were all tools that needed training. 
To pitch your life against another in battle was a contest that rarely, if ever, was one by simply overpowering your opponent. Winning, living, came down to stamina, willpower, or deception. Every great teacher passes these principles on to his students.
 Each swordsman inherits from his master tricks and techniques that have borne results over generations.
Everyone knew it wasn’t a contest of strength. And yet, standing winded and analyzing the last several minutes, X knew he had been deceiving himself for years. When men fight, it is physical. They naturally test each other’s strength. 
When opponents are near enough matched in speed that they live through the first few seconds, then trading blows is how you learned about the other and how you lied to the other about yourself.
You use discipline and power to chip away at him until either his will or his energy falters. But all that is a lie, a perversion. Boys playing at understanding. Pretending to know what it meant to be a master of the blade.
Sarasima’s smirk broadened. “I love this moment. You’re realizing you can’t beat me.” She sauntered onto the road, dripping grace and losing contempt and erotic pleasure. It was true, he couldn’t win this fight. 
But she was a woman and even if her swordplay and footwork made her a Phantom to his blade, he could still outrun her in a foot race. X licked his eyes to her feet and then down the road to check the path.
 A horsefly buzzed, hungrily biting his neck, but he dared not spare the time to swat it away as he stepped backward, edging away.
“Yes, run away. But don’t push yourself too hard. You wouldn’t want to bleed out before you can find help.”
Something was wrong here. She was not pursuing and instead of relief, X felt icy dread. He continued to back away. Three steps, four, 10. Colder. She slid her slender blade into the ornate scabbard and called out to him.
 “If you live in care to try again, you know where to find me.” Then with an easy to it, she was bouncing down the road with a happy childlike gait.
If I live? He stared after her puzzled, still holding his sword out it ready. The temperature was falling fast in the aftermath of adrenaline sword felt heavier than he could ever remember. Strangely X fumbled trying to she displayed.
 He looked down at the scabbard, down in his blood-covered hands. Had he cut himself? No, the blood already lay pooled around his feet.
X lifted his gaze, following the trail of blood up the road. When? He flung himself into remembering every moment of the fight. He hadn’t even touched her. 
The closest had been the few times she had tapped his sword further along its path as it sailed through empty air. You couldn’t even call them parries, really. They were a message, “I will not play your manly game of strike and block. I don’t need to.”
At no moment had she pressed the attack, not once had she had forced him to parry her blade. The ground rose and X found himself on his knees. A fat fly landed on the back of his hand and bit into the bloodied flesh. 
The sharp sting of it slapped his mind into focus. With the sinking realization, X knew it’d been her supple blade that stung his neck and not a fly. His hands shook as he fingered the wet skin of his throat.
A diagnosed slash ran from a finger under his ear to a hair above his collarbone. A masterful cut, he chuckled, pressing neck and palm together. He could feel the warmth pulsing, slow, but still trying to force itself out into the road.
That was a good sign. He struggled to his feet one leg at a time and followed her. If he lived, he would find her again. But not to die at her feet but kneel at them.
